Define @attributes on expressions (#450)
unicode-org/message-format-wg: spec/formatting.md

- Else, the _expression_ has a _reserved_ _annotation_,
  an Unsupported Expression error is emitted and a fallback value is used as its value.

_Expression attribute resolution_ defines the handling of _expression attributes_

> that have an impact on _message_ formatting.

Author: I'm not so sure about attributes getting passed as such to formatting or selection functions. If that makes sense, then why not pass them as function options?

Locale is special because
1. It's already handled as special by existing formatters, and
2. it may get a separate field in the formatted-parts output.

I can see how e.g. timezone could be handled similarly specially by setting up some aspect of the environment before a formatter call rather than considering it as a function option, but for that I'd expect it to be a thing that the implementation does, and which affects the formatter only indirectly.

> The attributes need to be resolved if they are present.

That's not really in line with what we're saying about other ignored code. For example, we allow an implementation to ignore errors in expressions that aren't needed for the current formatting. Similarly, we should ignore errors in attributes that don't impact the formatting.

> that have an impact on _message_ formatting.

Reviewer: > >     The attributes need to be resolved if they are present.
> That's not really in line with what we're saying about other ignored code. For example, we allow an implementation to ignore errors in expressions that aren't needed for the current formatting. Similarly, we should ignore errors in attributes that don't impact the formatting.

The attributes need to be parsed, even if they are not recognized. The parser does not necessarily know what is supported downstream or in an implementation.

> Similarly, we should ignore errors in attributes that don't impact the formatting.

Depends on what "error" means. If there is a syntax error, we can't ignore that, no? (some of this is about what "we" means here:  It is up to the function to decide if an attribute is "bad" or just to ignore it. "Our" job is to get the options and variables to the function.)

   and use a _fallback value_ for the _expression_.
3. Resolve the _option_ values to a mapping of string identifiers to values.
   For each _option_:

>    - If its right-hand side successfully resolves to a value,

Author: This text isn't changed from the previous; just the bullet point style is fixed.

     bind the _name_ of the _option_ to the resolved value in the mapping.

>    - Otherwise, do not bind the _name_ of the _option_ to any value in the mapping.

Author: This text isn't changed from the previous; just the bullet point style is fixed.

4. Determine the _expression_ _locale_.

>    If the _expression_ has a valid `@locale` _expression attribute_,

Author: That's defined in the _expression attribute resolution_ section.

   use its resolved value as the _expression_ _locale_.
   Otherwise, look up the _message_ _locale_ from the _formatting context_.
5. Call the function implementation with the following arguments:

>    - The _expression_ _locale_.

Reviewer: I would expose the expression attributes here also. Locale may not be the only one--I certainly have timezone in mind and other attributes may be provided by the implementation or our specification that affect the formatter.

Author: At least for the JS `Intl.DateTimeFormat`, `timeZone` is a regular option. Should we not handle it as such?

For other attributes, there is this below:
> Implementations MAY assign meaning during formatting to other _expression attributes_

Should the text here make a reference to that as well, or is that implicit permission sufficiently clear?

Reviewer: > For other attributes, there is this below:
>> Implementations MAY assign meaning during formatting to other expression attributes
> Should the text here make a reference to that as well, or is that implicit permission sufficiently clear?

You're permitting _implementations_ to assign meaning, but here I'm suggesting that _functions_ can assign meaning to attribute values, including those unknown to the implementation. They can only do this if they have access to the values, of course.

_Pattern selection_ is not supported for _fallback values_.

### Expression Attribute Resolution

> The only _expression attribute_ that MUST be supported is `@locale`.

Reviewer: I think this needs to start with the general case before jumping into the built-in attribute(s).

I would also not write this quite this way, in case we add more later. The same effect can be had with:

```suggestion
The _expression attribute_ `@locale` MUST be supported.
```

Or perhaps:

```suggestion
Implementations MUST support the _expression attribute_ `@locale`.
```

If its value is set by a _literal_,

> it MUST be a comma-delimited sequence of IETF BCP 47 language tags.

Reviewer: Do we wish to further constrain the language tags to be Unicode Locale Identifiers (ULIs)?

This text is non-specific about the conformance level of the language tags. Is well-formed enough? Valid? Canonicalized?

Author: I'm very happy to take input on this; I'm honestly not sure what the right specification here would be.

> If its value is set by a _literal_,
> it MUST be a comma-delimited sequence of IETF BCP 47 language tags.
> If its value is set by a _variable_,
> it MUST be either a single IETF BCP 47 language tag,
> or a sequence of IETF BCP 47 language tags.

Reviewer: I wouldn't differentiate literals and variables, since the content ends up the same:

```suggestion
The value of `@locale` MUST be a comma-delimited sequence of well-formed IETF BCP47 language tags.
```

(we can provide instructions on processing the language priority list, including whitespace handling and such if needed)

Author: That works. Your proposed text already clarifies an empty value to be an error, as the sequence need to consist of "one or more" tags.

The resolved value of a valid `@locale` _expression attribute_
is a sequence of IETF BCP 47 language tags.
If a `@locale` has an invalid value,

> emit a Resolution error and ignore the _expression attribute_ in further processing.

Reviewer: Should we say that the value reverts to that of the _message_?

Author: No need, because that's implicit in what happens if an expression has no `@locale` attribute.

> Implementations MAY ignore all other _expression attributes_ during formatting.

Reviewer: What does "ignore" mean? Not process them?

Author: Yes.

Implementations MAY assign meaning during formatting to other _expression attributes_

> which use a _name_ that contains at least one U+002D HYPHEN-MINUS `-` character.

Reviewer: Where did this come from? Why is the hyphen important? Why can't implementations "assign meaning" to unhyphenated values?

Author: If we allow implementations to use any attribute names, then we won't be able to introduce any additional attributes later without a danger of breaking userspace.

With the `-` requirement, we allow for custom attributes like `@can-delete`, but leave space for later MF 2.x spec versions to define other attributes.
